--> Logo Retention | SaaS Metrics Standard Board top of page Home Standards Contracted ARR (CARR) Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) Net Revenue Retention (NRR) Logo Retention Rule of 40 Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) CAC Payback Period Blended CAC Ratio New CAC Ratio Expansion CAC Ratio Nominations Membership Corporate Individual Working Committee About Us Contact Events Blog More... Use tab to navigate through the menu items. Log In Logo Retention Logo Retention Overview Alternative Metric(s) Name: Customer Logo Retention Definition Logo Retention , or Customer Logo Retention , measures the percentage of customers that are retained as customers over a specific period of time. Business Value and Insights Logo Retention is the most basic retention measure and does not consider the revenue associated with the customers included in this calculation. Logo retention can provide additional insight into the stability of a company's customer base because it is not subject to distortion from larger revenue companies which can mask an underlying customer churn problem. Calculation Formula Logo retention calculation should follow the same cohort-based construct as the Net Revenue Retention and Gross Revenue Retention standards. # of customers at the end of the period who were customers at the beginning of the period # of active customers at the beginning of the measurement period Data Inputs Required ​ Data Input #1: Number of customers at beginning of the period ​ The number of customers should be limited to include those customers that are currently on contract and generating revenue. Freemium, Free Trial and Trial customers should not be included in this calculation ​ Data Input #2: Number of customers at the end of the period ​ The number of customers should be limited to include those customers that are currently on contract and generating revenue. Freemium, Free Trial and Trial customers should not be included in the number of customers for this calculation This data is typically found in the Customer Relationship Management system, subscription billing system and/or contract management system Recommended Calculation Timing The metric is typically calculated every month for the prior 12 month period. Nuances to Consider Nuance #1: ​ There may be some judgment calls regarding the specific criteria to determine when a customer has churned. For example, a customer may be current on their invoices and verbally co mmi tted to renew, but the renewal contract was not signed by the renewal date or prior to the end of the reporting period. Nuance #2 : ​ Usage-based companies may have customers whose usage is highly variable and goes to zero for some months.As in #1 above, a standard company policy should be defined as to what criteria is used for a customer to be counted as a churned customer in the Logo Retention calculation. Nuance #3: Each company will need to come up with standard rules re garding these type of retention definition edge cases and then properly disclose and consistently apply those rules. Sample Calculation(s) List of Input Values: Number of Customers on January 1, 2022 = 350 Number of Customers from Jan 1, 2022 still active on January 1, 2023 = 320 Calculation Formula: 320 Active Customers from 1/1/22 ​ 350 Active Customers on 1/1/21 = 91.4% Logo Retention Rate Links to related Standards Net Revenue Retention: Click Here Gross Revenue Retention: Click Here DOWNLOAD STANDARD CONTACT info@saasmetricsboard.com New York, New York MEMBERSHIP Corporate Partner Individual Member Working Committee STANDARDS Net Revenue Retention Annual Recurring Revenue Gross Revenue Retention Customer Acquisition Cost Contracted ARR Logo Retention NOMINATIONS Metrics Nomination ORGANIZATION About Us 2023 SaaS Metrics Standards Board All Rights Reserved bottom of page