--> Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) | SaaS Metrics Standard Board top of page Home Standards Contracted ARR (CARR) Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) Net Revenue Retention (NRR) Logo Retention Rule of 40 Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) CAC Payback Period Blended CAC Ratio New CAC Ratio Expansion CAC Ratio Nominations Membership Corporate Individual Working Committee About Us Contact Events Blog More... Use tab to navigate through the menu items. Log In Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) Overview Alternative Nam e: Gross Dollar Retention (GDR) Definition Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) , also known as Gross Dollar Retention (GDR) measures the percentage of recurring revenue that is retained over a specific period of time. GRR captures lost recurring revenue due to customers leaving or lowering their usage commitments. By contrast, Net Revenue Retention (NRR) includes expansion revenue, while GRR only includes the effects of churned customers or lower revenue (down-sell) from existing customers. Business Value and Insights GRR is a critical SaaS metric because it directly measures the stability of a SaaS business's revenue. SaaS businesses with high GRR are more predictable and have higher growth potential because churn is not a significant drain on revenue. Customer churn, is the primary driver to lower and reduce GRR to the downside. Companies with high GRR tend to have both low levels of customer churn and healthy expansion revenue from existing customers. GRR will always be less than 100% as it does not include up-sell, cross-sell or usage expansion from existing customers. Calculation Formula(s) CALCULATION #1: COHORT METHOD CALCULATION #2: FORMULA METHOD CALCULATION FORMULA: Adjusted MRR* from the cohort of customers at the end of the period MRR at the beginning of the measurement period ​ The cohort method is the most accurate way to measure GRR and is the preferred approach in most situations. The cohort method compares the recurring revenue of a specific group of customers over time. Calculating GRR based on the cohort method is straightforward. As shown in the table below, the MRR for active customers from one year ago is in the first column. The current month's MRR for those same customers is in column two. The third column, the "Adjusted MRR," is simply the lesser of the beginning MRR or the current month's MRR. That adjustment mathematically eliminates expansion revenue while capturing shrinkage and churn. For this calculation, it's important to use recognized revenue and not bookings, billings, or cash accounting. SaaS companies with enterprise customers, longer contracts and implementation cycles can also use Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) or Contracted ARR (CARR). If using CARR, the metric will capture churn that occurs during the implementation cycle and before revenue is recognized. *Adjusted MRR is the lesser of the beginning MRR or the current month's MRR. This technique mathematically eliminates expansion revenue while capturing shrinkage and churn Data Inputs Required Data Input #1: MRR by customer at the beginning of the measurement period Data Input #2: Adjusted MRR* for that same group of customers at the end of the period. *Adjusted MRR is the lesser of the beginning MRR or the current month's MRR. This technique mathematically eliminates expansion revenue while capturing shrinkage and churn The revenue recognition schedule contains most MRR data, and CARR might be found in the CRM or contract management system. Sample Calculation Customers on 3/1/2021 Beginning MRR March 2021 Ending MRR March 2022 Adjusted MRR March 2022* Customer 1 $100.00 $200.00 $100.00 Customer 2 $200.00 $200.00 $200.00 Customer 3 $500.00 $ - $ - Customer 4 Customer 5 Customer 6 Customer 7 $200.00 $300.00 $1,000.00 $300.00 $500.00 $1,500.00 $200.00 $900.00 $200.00 $1,000.00 $200.00 $500.00 Customer 8 $1,200.00 $1,200.00 $1,200.00 Customer 9 $400.00 $600.00 $400.00 Customer 10 Total MRR $ 5,000.00 $600.00 $ - $5,100.00 $ 3,800.00 $ - Net Revenue Retention 102% Gross Revenue Retention 76% *Adjusted MRR is the lesser of Beginning or Ending MRR. In the above sample calculation, some customers churned, some contracted, and some expanded; however, the GRR calculation only adjusts for contraction and churn . GRR can never exceed 100% Calculation Timing The time period between the beginning MRR and ending MRR (for the same set of customers) is typically one year. Using GRR as an annual measurement is the most intuitive and easy to benchmark. ​ If the calculation period is less than one year, it can be annualized by taking the result to the appropriate power. For example, if measured over a quarter, take the result to the 4th power, and if measured over a month, take the result to the 12th power. Generally speaking, longer measurement periods yield the best results for long sales-cycle companies with larger annual or multi-year contracts, and shorter measurement periods are a better fit for companies with smaller contract values and shorter sales cycles. Regardless of the measurement period, the metric is typically calculated monthly on a rolling basis. Nuances To Consider Nuance #1: The cohort approach is considered more accurate than the formula approach, whose deficiencies are outlined below. Nuance #2: When using MRR, the cohort approach does not require separate tracking of revenue contraction or churn; it is embedded in the Adjusted Ending MRR. Nuance #3 : Revenue recognition accelerated due to a canceled contract should not be included in the beginning or ending MRR. Nuance #4 : Most companies define a "win-back" period of 30 - 90 days. If a churned customer renews within the win-back period, the resulting revenue is counted as a renewal and not a new sale. Nuance #5: Using Contracted ARR (CARR) instead of MRR captures the churn of customers who cancel after signing their contract but before implementation is complete and revenue is recognized. This is a useful measure for companies with long implementation cycles. Nuance #6: We recommend excluding variable revenue from usage-based pricing in the GRR calculation. GRR would capture the downside of variable "Usage-Based Revenue" and is not particularly helpful in understanding overall retention trends. Nuance #7: The cohort approach's main drawbacks are: 1) It does not capture the retention performance of recently acquired customerand; 2) It may not be helpful for a new business with few or no customers older than one year CALCULATION: ((Beginning MRR - Churned MRR - Down-Sell MRR)/Beginning MRR)) x 100 = GRR (%) The formula method divides churn for the period (adjusted for any expansion or contraction revenue) by the beginning revenue for the period. The calculation can use either Annual Recurring Revenue, (ARR), or Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR), with MRR being the most common. Data Inputs Required Data Input #1: Beginning MRR Data Input #2: Churned MRR for the period Data Input #3: Down-Sell MRR for the period Churned MRR results from customers who canceled or did not renew in the period. ​ Down-Sell MRR is the incremental MRR lost from existing customers due to reduction in subscription commitment or other decrease in Contracted MRR ​ Sample Calculation using MRR Beginning MRR: $100,000 Churned MRR in period: $1,000 Contraction MRR in period: $ 500 Gross Revenue Retention = 1- ($1,000 + $500)/$100,000) ​ Gross Revenue Retention = 1- ($1,500)/$100,000) Gross Revenue Retention = 1-(.015) ​ .985 or 98.5% for the period ​ If the above measurement period were one month, the annualized GRR metric would be ​ GRR = .98512 or 83.4% ​ If the measurement period were one quarter, the annualized GRR would be GRR = .9854 or 94.1% Calculation Timing The calculation can cover a month, quarter, or year but is most accurate when measuring monthly time periods. Quarterly calculations are typically annualized, but monthly numbers might not be appropriate for annualization due to their inherent variability. Using the formula method over a year-long period introduces errors which are described below. Nuances To Consider The formula method is frequently used with lower annual contract value businesses that have relatively high churn. For example, it's frequently used in B2C and telecom companies who benchmark themselves based on monthly churn. The formula approach is also good for high growth businesses where many of the current customers have not been customers for more than one year and are therefore not captured in the cohort approach. The main drawback to the formula approach is that some churn (or expansion) which occurs during the measurement period may not be related to customer revenue included in the beginning MRR which is the denominator in the calculation. This effect can introduce significant errors in the calculation and becomes more pronounced over longer measurement periods. Links to related standards Contracted ARR (CARR) Standard: Click here Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Standard: Click here Net Revenue Retention (NRR) Standard: Click here DOWNLOAD STANDARD CONTACT info@saasmetricsboard.com New York, New York MEMBERSHIP Corporate Partner Individual Member Working Committee STANDARDS Net Revenue Retention Annual Recurring Revenue Gross Revenue Retention Customer Acquisition Cost Contracted ARR Logo Retention NOMINATIONS Metrics Nomination ORGANIZATION About Us 2023 SaaS Metrics Standards Board All Rights Reserved bottom of page