--> Annual Recurring Revenue | SaaS Metrics Standard Board top of page Home Standards Contracted ARR (CARR) Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Gross Revenue Retention (GRR) Net Revenue Retention (NRR) Logo Retention Rule of 40 Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) CAC Payback Period Blended CAC Ratio New CAC Ratio Expansion CAC Ratio Nominations Membership Corporate Individual Working Committee About Us Contact Events Blog More... Use tab to navigate through the menu items. Log In Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Overview Definition Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) is recurring revenue, as defined by your revenue recognition policy, calculated on an annualized basis. ARR is the sum of subscription recurring revenue on an annualized basis. ARR should not include one-time fees or professional services even if they are recurring. ARR does not include contracted but not yet live ARR, and does not include known, but not yet recognized churned or down-sell ARR. See the Contracted ARR standard for its definition. Many companies will use Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR) x 12 to calculate Annual Recurring Revenue. This calculation method is discussed later in this standards document. Business Value and Insights ARR is a top operating metric for a SaaS business to monitor. Changes in ARR provides visibility into the health of any SaaS business. Investors for both private and public SaaS companies use a multiple of ARR as one primary calculation component for company valuation. An important facet of ARR is that it is a measure at a point in time - much like a Balance Sheet item, as opposed to an Income Statement metric like Revenue which is calculated over a period of time. That said, ARR is an accurate measure for the current size of a SaaS business. Calculation Formula ARR = (MRR x 12)&sup1; &sup1;MRR is the most recent monthly recurring revenue Data Inputs Required Data Input #1: Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR) from last month. Calculation Timing ARR should be calculated each month. Evaluating ARR trends between fiscal accounting periods, including monthly, quarterly and annually is critical to calculating "period over period" ARR growth rates. In many cases it's helpful to look at the growth rates over the same quarter in the previous year (period over period), as well as growth over the immediatly preceding quarter (sequential). Nuances to Consider Nuance #1: CARR vs ARR Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) does not factor in future events, known or unknown including new deals closed but not yet generating revenue w hich is included in the CARR metric standard. ARR does not include expected churn, expected down-sells or expected up-sells. Nuance #2: Bookings vs ARR Bookings does not have a standard definition but generally refers to the amount of new business closed in an accounting period. Bookings can sometimes include the total contracted ARR of multi-year agreements, professional services revenue and other non recurring commitments. ARR should not factor in any non recurring, one time revenue events such as professional services. Nuance #3 : ARR in multi-year agreements If multi-year agreements are used, the amount contributed to ARR should be only the latest month's MRR x 12, not the future value of contracted ARR beyond the current month. Nuance #4 : Usage-Based Pricin g impact on ARR The revenue associated with usage based pricing that exceeds committed minimums (overages) should not be part of ARR - regardless of the overage being invoiced. Invoiced amounts over the subscription agreement should not be considered as ARR. If there is no contracted recurring revenue minimum commitment (subscription agreement) for Usage-Based pricing utilization models, no ARR is present Companies that primarily use a Usage-Based Pricing model and not a subscription with a minimum annual commitment will not find as much value in the ARR metric. Nuance #5: When to include churned and down-sell ARR in ARR ​ ARR should be reduced by churned ARR in the month the down-sell or churn contractually occurs. Churned ARR should not be deducted from ARR upon learning about known churn in the future. Churned ARR should be deducted in the same month the contract expires and/or agreement is not renewed. Sample Calculation(s) Sample Calculation #1 Sample Calculation #2 Sample Calculation #1: Annual Calculation at end of Fiscal Year ending Dec 31, 2022 List of Input Values MRR (December, 2022): $833,333 Committed ARR not yet live on December 31, 2022: $500,000 Known future Churn or Downsell ARR on December 31, 2022: $300,000 Calculation Formula ($833,333 x 12) &sup1; = $10,000,000 ARR &sup1; No future known events, including churn or new contracts signed but not yet in production are includ ed Sample Calculation #2: Calculation at end of Fiscal Month - but not end of Fiscal year List of Input Value s MRR (Sep, 2022): $750,000 Committed ARR not live by September 30, 2022: $150,000 Known future Churn or Downsell ARR on September 30, 2022: $50,000 ​ Calculation Formula ($750,000 x 12)&sup1; = $9,000,000 &sup1;No future but not yet in production ARR or known down-sell or churn is used in this calculation Links to related Standards Contracted Annual Recurring Revenue (CARR) Standards: Click Here DOWNLOAD STANDARD CONTACT info@saasmetricsboard.com New York, New York MEMBERSHIP Corporate Partner Individual Member Working Committee STANDARDS Net Revenue Retention Annual Recurring Revenue Gross Revenue Retention Customer Acquisition Cost Contracted ARR Logo Retention NOMINATIONS Metrics Nomination ORGANIZATION About Us 2023 SaaS Metrics Standards Board All Rights Reserved bottom of page